
## identifier

System dataset identifier
        
| title              | required   | type   |
|:-------------------|:-----------|:-------|
| Dataset identifier | True       | Uuidv4 |

Examples: 
   * ['226fb3f1-4471-400a-8c39-2b66d46a39b6', 'https://web.www.healthdatagateway.org/dataset/226fb3f1-4471-400a-8c39-2b66d46a39b6']


## version

Dataset metadata version
        
| title           | required   | type   |
|:----------------|:-----------|:-------|
| Dataset Version | True       | Semver |

Examples: 
   * 1.1.0


## revisions

Revisions of Dataset metadata
        





### version

Semantic Version
        
| title   | required   | type   |
|:--------|:-----------|:-------|
|         | True       | Semver |




### url

URL endpoint to obtain the version
        
| title   | required   | type   |
|:--------|:-----------|:-------|
|         | True       | Url    |




## issued

Dataset Metadata Creation Date
        
| title         | required   | type     |
|:--------------|:-----------|:---------|
| Creation Date | True       | datetime |




## modified

Dataset Metadata Creation Date
        
| title             | required   | type     |
|:------------------|:-----------|:---------|
| Modification Date | True       | datetime |




## summary

Summary metadata must be completed by Data Custodians onboarding metadata into the Innovation Gateway MVP.
        





### title

Title of the dataset limited to 150 characters. It should provide a short description of the dataset and be unique across the gateway. If your title is not unique, please add a prefix with your organisation name or identifier to differentiate it from other datasets within the Gateway. Please avoid acronyms wherever possible. Good titles should summarise the content of the dataset and if relevant, the region the dataset covers.
        
| title   | required   | type                      |
|:--------|:-----------|:--------------------------|
| Title   | True       | OneHundredFiftyCharacters |

Examples: 
   * ['North West London COVID-19 Patient Level Situation Report']


### abstract

Provide a clear and brief descriptive signpost for researchers who are searching for data that may be relevant to their research. The abstract should allow the reader to determine the scope of the data collection and accurately summarise its content. The optimal length is one paragraph (limited to 255 characters) and effective abstracts should avoid long sentences and abbreviations where possible
        
| title            | required   | type         |
|:-----------------|:-----------|:-------------|
| Dataset Abstract | True       | AbstractText |

Examples: 
   * CPRD Aurum contains primary care data contributed by General Practitioner (GP) practices using EMIS Web® including patient registration information and all care events that GPs have chosen to record as part of their usual medical practice.


### publisher

This is the organisation responsible for running or supporting the data access request process, as well as publishing and maintaining the metadata. In most this will be the same as the HDR UK Organisation (Hub or Alliance Member). However, in some cases this will be different i.e. Tissue Directory are an HDR UK Gateway organisation but coordinate activities across a number of data publishers i.e. Cambridge Blood and Stem Cell Biobank.
        





#### identifier

Please provide a Grid.ac identifier (see https://www.grid.ac/institutes) for your organisation. If your organisation does not have a Grid.ac identifier please use the “suggest and institute” function here: https://www.grid.ac/institutes#
        
| title                   | required   | type   |
|:------------------------|:-----------|:-------|
| Organisation Identifier | False      | Url    |




#### name

Name of the organisation
        
| title             | required   | type                      |
|:------------------|:-----------|:--------------------------|
| Organisation Name | True       | OneHundredFiftyCharacters |




#### logo

Please provide a logo associated with the Gateway Organisation using a valid URL. The following formats will be accepted .jpg, .png or .svg.
        
| title             | required   | type   |
|:------------------|:-----------|:-------|
| Organisation Logo | False      | Url    |




#### description

Please provide a URL that describes the organisation.
        
| title                    | required   | type        |
|:-------------------------|:-----------|:------------|
| Organisation Description | False      | Description |




#### contactPoint

Organisation contact point(s)
        
| title                      | required   | type         |
|:---------------------------|:-----------|:-------------|
| Organisation Contact Point | True       | EmailAddress |




#### memberOf

Please indicate if the organisation is an Alliance Member or a Hub.
        
| title                   | required   | type     |
|:------------------------|:-----------|:---------|
| Organisation Membership | False      | MemberOf |




### contactPoint

Please provide a valid email address that can be used to coordinate data access requests with the publisher. Organisations are expected to provide a dedicated email address associated with the data access request process. Notes- An employee's email address can only be provided on a temporary basis and if one is provided an explicit consent must be obtained for this purpose.
        
| title         | required   | type         |
|:--------------|:-----------|:-------------|
| Contact Point | True       | EmailAddress |

Examples: 
   * SAILDatabank@swansea.ac.uk


### keywords

Please provide relevant and specific keywords that can improve the SEO of your dataset as a comma separated list. Notes: Onboarding portal will suggest keywords based on title, abstract and description. We are compiling a standardised list of keywords and synonyms across datasets to make filtering easier for users.
        
| title    | required   | type                 |
|:---------|:-----------|:---------------------|
| Keywords | True       | CommaSeparatedValues |




### alternateIdentifiers

Alternate dataset identifiers or local identifiers
        
| title                         | required   | type                 |
|:------------------------------|:-----------|:---------------------|
| Alternate dataset identifiers | False      | CommaSeparatedValues |




### doiName

All HDR UK registered datasets should either have a Digital Object Identifier (DOI) or be working towards obtaining one. If a DOI is available, please provide the DOI.
        
| title                     | required   | type   |
|:--------------------------|:-----------|:-------|
| Digital Object Identifier | False      | Doi    |

Examples: 
   * 10.3399/bjgp17X692645


## documentation

Documentation can include a rich text description of the dataset or links to media such as documents, images, presentations, videos or links to data dictionaries, profiles or dashboards. Organisations are required to confirm that they have permission to distribute any additional media.
        





### description

A free-text description of the record.
        
| title       | required   | type        |
|:------------|:-----------|:------------|
| Description | False      | Description |




### associatedMedia

Please provide any media associated with the Gateway Organisation using a valid URI for the content. This is an opportunity to provide additional context that could be useful for researchers wanting to understand more about the dataset and its relevance to their research question. The following formats will be accepted .jpg, .png or .svg, .pdf, .xslx or .docx. Note: media asset can be hosted by the organisation or uploaded using the onboarding portal.
        
| title            | required   | type                 |
|:-----------------|:-----------|:---------------------|
| Associated Media | False      | CommaSeparatedValues |

Examples: 
   * PDF Document that describes study protocol


### isPartOf

Please complete only if the dataset is part of a group or family
        
| title   | required   | type                 |
|:--------|:-----------|:---------------------|
| Group   | False      | CommaSeparatedValues |

Examples: 
   * Hospital Episodes Statistics datasets (A&E, APC, OP, AC MSDS).


## coverage

This information includes attributes for geographical and temporal coverage, cohort details etc. to enable a deeper understanding of the dataset content so that researchers can make decisions about the relevance of the underlying data.
        





### spatial

The geographical area covered by the dataset. It is recommended that links are to entries in a well-maintained gazetteer such as https://www.geonames.org/ or https://what3words.com/daring.lion.race.
        
| title               | required   | type                 |
|:--------------------|:-----------|:---------------------|
| Geographic Coverage | False      | CommaSeparatedValues |

Examples: 
   * https://www.geonames.org/2635167/united-kingdom-of-great-britain-and-northern-ireland.html


### typicalAgeRange

Please indicate the age range in whole years of participants in the dataset. Please provide range in the following format '[min age] – [max age]' where both the minimum and maximum are whole numbers (integers).
        
| title     | required   | type     |
|:----------|:-----------|:---------|
| Age Range | False      | AgeRange |




### physicalSampleAvailability

Availability of physical samples associated with the dataset. If samples are available, please indicate the types of samples that are available. More than one type may be provided. If sample are not yet available, please provide “AVAILABILITY TO BE CONFIRMED”. If samples are not available, then please provide “NOT AVAILABLE”.
        
| title                        | required   | type                 |
|:-----------------------------|:-----------|:---------------------|
| Physical Sample Availability | False      | CommaSeparatedValues |

Examples: 
   * BONE MARROW


### followup

If known, what is the typical time span that a patient appears in the dataset (follow up period)
        
| title    | required   | type     |
|:---------|:-----------|:---------|
| Followup | False      | Followup |




### pathway

Please indicate if the dataset is representative of the patient pathway and any limitations the dataset may have with respect to pathway coverage. This could include if the dataset is from a single speciality or area, a single tier of care, linked across two tiers (e.g. primary and secondary care), or an integrated care record covering the whole patient pathway.
        
| title   | required   | type        |
|:--------|:-----------|:------------|
| Pathway | False      | Description |




## provenance

Provenance information allows researchers to understand data within the context of its origins and can be an indicator of quality, authenticity and timeliness.
        





### origin

None
        





#### purpose

Pleases indicate the purpose(s) that the dataset was collected.
        
| title   | required   | type                 |
|:--------|:-----------|:---------------------|
| Purpose | False      | CommaSeparatedValues |




#### source

Pleases indicate the source of the data extraction
        
| title   | required   | type                 |
|:--------|:-----------|:---------------------|
| Source  | False      | CommaSeparatedValues |




#### collectionSituation

Pleases indicate the setting(s) where data was collected. Multiple settings may be provided
        
| title   | required   | type                 |
|:--------|:-----------|:---------------------|
| Setting | False      | CommaSeparatedValues |




### temporal

None
        





#### accrualPeriodicity

Please indicate the frequency of distribution release. If a dataset is distributed regularly please choose a distribution release periodicity from the constrained list and indicate the next release date. When the release date becomes historical, a new release date will be calculated based on the publishing periodicity. If a dataset has been published and will remain static please indicate that it is static and indicated when it was released. If a dataset is released on an irregular basis or “on-demand” please indicate that it is Irregular and leave release date as null. If a dataset can be published in real-time or near-real-time please indicate that it is continuous and leave release date as null. Notes: see https://www.dublincore.org/specifications/dublin-core/collection-description/frequency/
        
| title       | required   | type        |
|:------------|:-----------|:------------|
| Periodicity | True       | Periodicity |




#### distributionReleaseDate

Date of the latest release of the dataset. If this is a regular release i.e. quarterly, or this is a static dataset please complete this alongside Periodicity. If this is Irregular or Continuously released please leave this blank. Notes: Periodicity and release date will be used to determine when the next release is expected. E.g. if the release date is documented as 01/01/2020 and it is now 20/04/2020 and there is a quarterly release schedule, the latest release will be calculated as 01/04/2020.
        
| title        | required   | type   |
|:-------------|:-----------|:-------|
| Release Date | False      | date   |




#### startDate

The start of the time period that the dataset provides coverage for. If there are multiple cohorts in the dataset with varying start dates, please provide the earliest date and use the description or the media attribute to provide more information.
        
| title      | required   | type   |
|:-----------|:-----------|:-------|
| Start Date | True       | date   |




#### endDate

The end of the time period that the dataset provides coverage for. If the dataset is “Continuous” and has no known end date, please state continuous. If there are multiple cohorts in the dataset with varying end dates, please provide the latest date and use the description or the media attribute to provide more information.
        
| title    | required   | type   |
|:---------|:-----------|:-------|
| End Date | False      | date   |




#### timeLag

Please indicate the typical time-lag between an event and the data for that event appearing in the dataset
        
| title    | required   | type    |
|:---------|:-----------|:--------|
| Time Lag | True       | TimeLag |




## accessibility

Accessibility information allows researchers to understand access, usage, limitations, formats, standards and linkage or interoperability with toolsets.
        





### usage

This section includes information about how the data can be used and how it is currently being used
        





#### dataUseLimitation

Please provide an indication of consent permissions for datasets and/or materials, and relates to the purposes for which datasets and/or material might be removed, stored or used. NOTE: we have extended the DUO to include a value for NO LINKAGE
        
| title               | required   | type                 |
|:--------------------|:-----------|:---------------------|
| Data Use Limitation | False      | CommaSeparatedValues |




#### dataUseRequirements

Please indicate fit here are any additional conditions set for use if any, multiple requirements may be provided. Please ensure that these restrictions are documented in access rights information.
        
| title                 | required   | type                 |
|:----------------------|:-----------|:---------------------|
| Data Use Requirements | False      | CommaSeparatedValues |




#### resourceCreator

Please provide the text that you would like included as part of any citation that credits this dataset. This is typically just the name of the publisher.   No employee details should be provided.
        
| title                 | required   | type             |
|:----------------------|:-----------|:-----------------|
| Citation Requirements | False      | ShortDescription |




#### investigations

None
        
| title          | required   | type                 |
|:---------------|:-----------|:---------------------|
| Investigations | False      | CommaSeparatedValues |




#### isReferencedBy

Please provide the keystone paper associated with the dataset. Also include a list of known citations, if available and should be links to existing resources where the dataset has been used or referenced. Please provide multiple entries, or if you are using a csv upload please provide them as a tab separated list.
        
| title     | required   | type   |
|:----------|:-----------|:-------|
| Citations | False      | Doi    |




### access

This section includes information about data access
        





#### accessRights

None
        
| title         | required   | type            |
|:--------------|:-----------|:----------------|
| Access Rights | True       | LongDescription |




#### accessService

Please provide a brief description of the data access services that are available including: environment that is currently available to researchers;additional consultancy and services;any indication of costs associated. If no environment is currently available, please indicate the current plans and timelines when and how data will be made available to researchers Note: This value will be used as default access environment for all datasets submitted by the organisation. However, there will be the opportunity to overwrite this value for each dataset.
        
| title          | required   | type            |
|:---------------|:-----------|:----------------|
| Access Service | False      | LongDescription |

Examples: 
   * https://cnfl.extge.co.uk/display/GERE/Research+Environment+User+Guide


#### accessRequestCost

Please provide link(s) to a webpage detailing the commercial model for processing data access requests for the organisation (if available) Definition: Indication of commercial model or cost (in GBP) for processing each data access request by the data custodian.
        
| title                            | required   | type            |
|:---------------------------------|:-----------|:----------------|
| Organisation Access Request Cost | False      | LongDescription |




#### deliveryLeadTime

Please provide an indication of the typical processing times based on the types of requests typically received.
        
| title                   | required   | type             |
|:------------------------|:-----------|:-----------------|
| Access Request Duration | False      | DeliveryLeadTime |




#### jurisdiction

Please use country code from ISO 3166-1 country codes and the associated ISO 3166-2 for regions, cities, states etc. for the country/state under whose laws the data subjects' data is collected, processed and stored.
        
| title        | required   | type                 |
|:-------------|:-----------|:---------------------|
| Jurisdiction | True       | CommaSeparatedValues |




#### dataController

Data Controller means a person/entity who (either alone or jointly or in common with other persons/entities) determines the purposes for which and the way any Data Subject data, specifically personal data or are to be processed.
        
| title           | required   | type            |
|:----------------|:-----------|:----------------|
| Data Controller | True       | LongDescription |




#### dataProcessor

A Data Processor, in relation to any Data Subject data, specifically personal data, means any person/entity (other than an employee of the data controller) who processes the data on behalf of the data controller.
        
| title          | required   | type            |
|:---------------|:-----------|:----------------|
| Data Processor | False      | LongDescription |




### formatAndStandards

Section includes technical attributes for language vocabularies, sizes etc. and gives researchers facts about and processing the underlying data in the dataset.
        





#### vocabularyEncodingScheme

List any relevant terminologies / ontologies / controlled vocabularies, such as ICD 10 Codes, NHS Data Dictionary National Codes or SNOMED CT International, that are being used by the dataset. If the controlled vocabularies are local standards, please make that explicit. If you are using a standard that has not been included in the list, please use “other” and contact support desk to ask for an addition. Notes: More than one vocabulary may be provided.
        
| title                 | required   | type                 |
|:----------------------|:-----------|:---------------------|
| Controlled Vocabulary | True       | CommaSeparatedValues |




#### conformsTo

List standardised data models that the dataset has been stored in or transformed to, such as OMOP or FHIR. If the data is only available in a local format, please make that explicit. If you are using a standard that has not been included in the list, please use “other” and contact support desk to ask for an addition.
        
| title       | required   | type                 |
|:------------|:-----------|:---------------------|
| Conforms To | True       | CommaSeparatedValues |




#### language

This should list all the languages in which the dataset metadata and underlying data is made available.
        
| title    | required   | type                 |
|:---------|:-----------|:---------------------|
| Language | True       | CommaSeparatedValues |




#### format

If multiple formats are available please specify. See application, audio, image, message, model, multipart, text, video, https://www.iana.org/assignments/media-types/media-types.xhtml Note: If your file format is not included in the current list of formats, please indicate other. If you are using the HOP you will be directed to a service desk page where you can request your additional format. If not please go to: https://metadata.atlassian.net/servicedesk/customer/portal/4 to request your format.
        
| title   | required   | type                 |
|:--------|:-----------|:---------------------|
| Format  | True       | CommaSeparatedValues |




## enrichmentAndLinkage

This section includes information about related datasets that may have previously been linked, as well as indicating if there is the opportunity to link to other datasets in the future. If a dataset has been enriched and/or derivations, scores and existing tools are available this section allows providers to indicate this to researchers.
        





### qualifiedRelation

If applicable, please provide the DOI of other datasets that have previously been linked to this dataset and their availability. If no DOI is available, please provide the title of the datasets that can be linked, where possible using the same title of a dataset previously onboarded to the HOP. Note: If all the datasets from Gateway organisation can be linked please indicate “ALL” and the onboarding portal will automate linkage across the datasets submitted.
        
| title           | required   | type                 |
|:----------------|:-----------|:---------------------|
| Linked Datasets | False      | CommaSeparatedValues |




### derivation

Indicate if derived datasets or predefined extracts are available and the type of derivation available. Notes. Single or multiple dimensions can be provided as a derived extract alongside the dataset.
        
| title       | required   | type                 |
|:------------|:-----------|:---------------------|
| Derivations | False      | CommaSeparatedValues |




### tools

Please provide the URL of any analysis tools or models that have been created for this dataset and are available for further use. Multiple tools may be provided. Note: We encourage users to adopt a model along the lines of https://www.ga4gh.org/news/tool-registry-service-api-enabling-an-interoperable-library-of-genomics-analysis-tools/
        
| title   | required   | type                 |
|:--------|:-----------|:---------------------|
| Tools   | False      | CommaSeparatedValues |




## observations

Multiple observations about the dataset may be provided and users are expected to provide at least one observation (1..*). We will be supporting the schema.org observation model (https://schema.org/Observation) with default values. Users will be encouraged to provide their own statistical populations as the project progresses. Example: &lt;b&gt; Statistical Population 1 &lt;/b&gt; type: StatisticalPopulation populationType: Persons numConstraints: 0 &lt;b&gt; Statistical Population 2 &lt;/b&gt; type: StatisticalPopulation populationType: Events numConstraints: 0 &lt;b&gt; Statistical Population 3 &lt;/b&gt; type: StatisticalPopulation populationType: Findings numConstraints: 0 typeOf: Observation observedNode: &lt;b&gt; Statistical Population 1 &lt;/b&gt; measuredProperty: count measuredValue: 32937 observationDate: “2017”
        





### observedNode

Please select one of the following statistical populations for you observation
        
| title                  | required   | type                             |
|:-----------------------|:-----------|:---------------------------------|
| Statistical Population | True       | StatisticalPopulationConstrained |

Examples: 
   * PERSONS


### measuredValue

Please provide the population size associated with the population type the dataset i.e. 1000 people in a study, or 87 images (MRI) of Knee Usage Note: Used with Statistical Population, which specifies the type of the population in the dataset.
        
| title          | required   | type   |
|:---------------|:-----------|:-------|
| Measured Value | True       | int    |




### disambiguatingDescription

If SNOMED CT term does not provide sufficient detail, please provide a description that disambiguates the population type.
        
| title                      | required   | type         |
|:---------------------------|:-----------|:-------------|
| Disambiguating Description | False      | AbstractText |




### observationDate

Please provide the date that the observation was made. Some datasets may be continuously updated and the number of records will change regularly, so the observation date provides users with the date that the analysis or query was run to generate the particular observation. Multiple observations can be made i.e. an observation of cumulative COVID positive cases by specimen on the 1/1/2021 could be 2M. On the 8/1/2021 a new observation could be 2.1M. Users can add multiple observations.
        
| title            | required   | type   |
|:-----------------|:-----------|:-------|
| Observation Date | True       | date   |




### measuredProperty

Initially this will be defaulted to "COUNT"
        
| title             | required   | type             |
|:------------------|:-----------|:-----------------|
| Measured Property | True       | MeasuredProperty |




## structuralMetadata

Descriptions of all tables and data elements that can be included in the dataset
        
| title               | required   | type      |
|:--------------------|:-----------|:----------|
| Structural Metadata | False      | DataClass |



